[llvm] Add a overview of compilers and LLVM (#22)
llvm-wiki/llvm-wiki: docs/llvm/overview/index.md

# Getting Started

In this section, we will briefly describe the basics and concepts related to compilers and introduce the LLVM project.

> > This section assumes that you do not have any background in compilers and that you already have an understanding of programming and can write simple C code.

Reviewer: Use markdown extension "Note"?

```
???+Note "Note"
<4 spaces> contents
```

## What is a compiler

Conceptually, a compiler is a **computer program** that converts a programming language into another language. What we usually call a compiler generally converts a higher-level programming language such as C, C++, Fortran, etc. into a lower-level assembly language or machine code.

> **Note that a compiler is not an editor, much less an IDE.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note that a compiler is neither an editor nor an IDE.**
```

Author: I think the original sentence actually makes more sense?

## LLVM

> > Note that LLVM as discussed here refers to all the subprojects contained in the LLVM monorepo, not to the LLVM core in the traditional sense.

Reviewer: Note?

LLVM is a set of **reusable** compiler toolchains. It currently contains at least the following subprojects.

* bolt

A linked optimizer that optimizes the code layout of an application for improvements based on execution profiles collected by sampled profilers (such as the Linux perf tool).

* clang

A GCC-compatible compiler front-end for the C family (C, C++, Objective C/C++, OpenCL, CUDA), known for its respectable compilation times and good diagnostic information.

* libcxx

A new implementation of the C++ standard library, for C++11 and above.

* llvm

The core of the LLVM project, including the LLVM intermediate language, various optimizations, and its corresponding command-line tools.

* mlir

A general framework for writing various types of analysis and transformations in compilers and the intermediate representations they require.

* lld

A high-performance, modular cross-platform linker.

## LLVM design philosophy

LLVM is modular, and the most important aspect of LLVM is that it is designed as a set of libraries, not as a single command-line compiler like GCC or an opaque virtual machine like the JVM or .NET virtual machines.

> As an example, the LLVM optimizer provides a large number of passes that are compiled into one or more `.o` files and then built into a series of static or dynamic libraries. These libraries provide various parsing and transformation functions, and the passes are kept as independent as possible from each other, or if they depend on other parsing to do their job, their dependencies on other passes are explicitly declared. In contrast, during the actual optimization process of LLVM optimization, only the passes that are used are linked to the final application, not all of them.

Reviewer: > In contrast, during the actual optimization process of LLVM optimization, only the passes that are used are linked to the final application, not all of them.

Did passes link to the application?

Author: See my comment above.

> As an example, the LLVM optimizer provides a large number of passes that are compiled into one or more `.o` files and then built into a series of static or dynamic libraries. These libraries provide various parsing and transformation functions, and the passes are kept as independent as possible from each other, or if they depend on other parsing to do their job, their dependencies on other passes are explicitly declared. In contrast, during the actual optimization process of LLVM optimization, only the passes that are used are linked to the final application, not all of them.

Reviewer 2: > As an example, the LLVM optimizer provides a large number of passes that are compiled into one or more `.o` files and then built into a series of static or dynamic libraries.

Add a link to the section that introduces LLVM passes?

> This straightforward design approach allows LLVM to provide a large number of features, some of which may be useful only to a specific audience, without affecting users of the library who just want to do other simple things. In contrast, traditional compiler optimizers are built as large amounts of interrelated code, making it difficult to subset, reason about, and accelerate them. With LLVM, you can understand the individual optimizers without knowing how the whole system fits together.

Reviewer 2: > In contrast, traditional compiler optimizers are built as large amounts of interrelated code, making it difficult to subset, reason about, and accelerate them.

"subset" is not a verb. Use "split" or "divide" instead?

> ## Pipeline of a compiler (with LLVM as an example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pipeline of a compiler (taking clang for example)
```

Generally speaking, compilers are divided into front-end, middle-end and back-end.

The front-end is responsible for analyzing and processing the source code and generating intermediate code.

> ### Lexical analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Lexing
```

plus '+'         [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:1:27>
numeric_constant '42'    [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:1:29>
semi ';'                Loc=<prog.c:1:31>
r_brace '}'      [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:1:33>
int 'int'        [StartOfLine]  Loc=<prog.c:3:1>
identifier 'main'        [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:3:5>
l_paren '('             Loc=<prog.c:3:9>
r_paren ')'             Loc=<prog.c:3:10>
l_brace '{'      [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:3:12>
int 'int'        [StartOfLine] [LeadingSpace]   Loc=<prog.c:4:3>
identifier 'x'   [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:4:7>
equal '='        [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:4:9>
identifier 'foo'         [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:4:11>
l_paren '('             Loc=<prog.c:4:14>
numeric_constant '24'           Loc=<prog.c:4:15>
r_paren ')'             Loc=<prog.c:4:17>
semi ';'                Loc=<prog.c:4:18>
return 'return'  [StartOfLine] [LeadingSpace]   Loc=<prog.c:5:3>
identifier 'x'   [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:5:10>
minus '-'        [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:5:12>
numeric_constant '24'    [LeadingSpace] Loc=<prog.c:5:14>
semi ';'                Loc=<prog.c:5:16>
r_brace '}'      [StartOfLine]  Loc=<prog.c:6:1>
eof ''          Loc=<prog.c:6:2>
```

> ### Syntax analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Parsing
```

As in the example above, Clang generates the following intermediate language (LLVM IR).
```llvm
; ModuleID = 'prog.c'
source_filename = "prog.c"
target datalayout = "e-m:e-p270:32:32-p271:32:32-p272:64:64-i64:64-f80:128-n8:16:32:64-S128"
target triple = "x86_64-pc-linux-gnu"

; Function Attrs: noinline nounwind optnone
define dso_local i32 @foo(i32 noundef %i) #0 {
entry:
  %i.addr = alloca i32, align 4
  store i32 %i, i32* %i.addr, align 4
  %0 = load i32, i32* %i.addr, align 4
  %add = add nsw i32 %0, 42
  ret i32 %add
}

; Function Attrs: noinline nounwind optnone
define dso_local i32 @main() #0 {
entry:
  %retval = alloca i32, align 4
  %x = alloca i32, align 4
  store i32 0, i32* %retval, align 4
  %call = call i32 @foo(i32 noundef 24)
  store i32 %call, i32* %x, align 4
  %0 = load i32, i32* %x, align 4
  %sub = sub nsw i32 %0, 24
  ret i32 %sub
}
```

The middle-end is mainly responsible for analyzing and optimizing on the intermediate code to generate a more efficient intermediate code. In addition to the generic optimizations, the middle-end also contains those platform-specific optimizations.

> The specific responsibilities of the middle-end include.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The specific responsibilities of the middle-end include:
```

```sh
$ opt -passes=dse prog.ll | llvm-dis -f
; ModuleID = '<stdin>'
source_filename = "prog.ll"

define void @test(ptr %Q, ptr %P) {
  store i32 0, ptr %P, align 4
  ret void
}
```

Here we use the `opt` utility provided by LLVM to apply a dead code elimination optimization to `prog.ll` alone. Since `opt` generates human-unreadable LLVM bytecode, we then use `llvm-dis` to convert it to LLVM IR.

The backend needs to generate the intermediate code into machine code for the corresponding platform, as well as some CPU architecture details for optimization.

## How to contribute to LLVM

### Submitting new bugs

For a long time LLVM has been using [Bugzilla](https://bugs.llvm.org/) as its bug tracker, but has now moved to [Github issues](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues). You can find some easy-to-follow bugs by looking at [Good Frist Issue](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) in issue.

### Submit a patch

> Note that LLVM is interested in dropping Phabricator and moving to Github Pull Requests, as detailed in [
Code Review Process Update](https://discourse.llvm.org/t/code-review-process-update/63964).

> Currently, LLVM also primarily uses [Phabricator](https://reviews.llvm.org/) to submit patches for code review. You can quickly sign up for a Phabricator account using a third-party account such as Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the LLVM community still uses [Phabricator](https://reviews.llvm.org/) to submit patches for code review. You can quickly sign up for a Phabricator account using a third-party account such as GitHub.
```

You can submit your patches using the web page or Phabricator's own command line tool, arcanist. Specific documentation can be found [here](https://llvm.org/docs/Phabricator.html#phabricator-reviews). The following is a simple example of using arcanist.

> Here we assume that you are using a Unix-like operating system and have Git installed and configured

> First we need to install arcanist: ``sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First we need to install arcanist:
```

```sh
git clone https://github.com/phacility/arcanist.git
```

> Next, add it to the environment variables: ```sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, add it to the environment variables:
```
